1. String pool -
The java String constant pool is special memory area inside the HEAP memory that stores string literals.
when JVM run hota hai :
. first its checks string already present hai in string pool.
. if yes it reuses existing string refrrence
. if no it creates new string object in the string pool

iske karan lot of memory save hota hai by reusing immutable string object.

🌟 String Pool म्हणजे काय?

JVM मध्ये Heap मेमरीत एक खास जागा असते → String Constant Pool (SCP).

इथे String literals फक्त एकदाच साठवले जातात.

जेव्हा तू String s1 = "Hello"; असे लिहितोस, तेव्हा JVM पाहते:

Pool मध्ये "Hello" आधीपासून आहे का?

असेल → त्याचाच reference देईल

नसेल → नवीन literal pool मध्ये ठेवेल

example :
String s1 = "Java";
String s2 = "Java";

येथे JVM String Pool मध्ये "Java" फक्त एकदाच साठवते.

s1 आणि s2 दोघेही त्याच String object कडे point करतात.

❌ परंतु new keyword वापरल्यास
String s3 = new String("Java");
हे नेहमी नवीन Object तयार करते (Heap मध्ये),
म्हणून String Pool चा फायदा होत नाही.

👍 String Pool का वापरतात?

मेमरी वाचवण्यासाठी

performance सुधारण्यासाठी

duplicate string objects टाळण्यासाठी

1. Why are Strings Immutable in Java?
Strings are Immutable means their values cannot changed once created, If you try to change a string value using its functions like concat() or replace() , a new string object is created instead of modifying original one.

✅ 1. Security (सुरक्षेसाठी सर्वात मोठे कारण)

Strings वारंवार खालील ठिकाणी वापरले जातात:

File path

Username/password

Database connection URL

Network connections (IP, port)

जर Strings mutable असते, तर कुणीही त्या values run-time ला बदलू शकत होते → Security breach.

✔ Example:
Connection(URL) जर URL मध्ये कुणी runtime ला बदल केला तर application crash किंवा hacking शक्य.

✅ 2. Thread Safety (No need for synchronization)

Strings immutable असल्यामुळे:

Two threads एकाच String वापरत असले तरी conflict होत नाही

Because value बदलतेच नाही

✅ 3. Caching and Hashcode stability

Strings चा hashCode() value त्याच्या content वर अवलंबून असतो.

जर String mutable असते:

value बदलेल → hashcode बदलेल

HashMap / HashSet मधून object हरवेल (corruption)

Immutable असल्यामुळे:

hashcode स्थिर राहतो

त्यामुळे Strings efficient keys बनतात (HashMap keys म्हणून सर्वात जास्त वापरतात)

4. Performance Optimization: saves memory and improves speed.

Q.3 what is the diff betn creating a string using new() and as a literal?
creating string by using new() keyword its create new obj of that string in Heap memory area even if that value is already present in the heap memory.
Ex: String s1 = "hello";
	String s2 = new String ("hello"); // s1 == s2 FALSE ,its create new obj in heap mem.
	
and string literal means when JVM starts first its check the string refrence value is already present inside the string constant pool which is small part of heap memory area , if yes then it will use the same refrence value, else its create new refrence inside string constant pool , so its improves application performance save memory.
Ex: String s1 = "hello";
	String s2 = "hello"; //s1 == s2 TRUE . String variable S1 value already present so String variable s2 point to the same value without creation new string with value.
	
Q.4 what is Collection framework?
Collection framework is set of classes and interfaces which provides us ready made data structures to store and manipulate group of objects.
its from java.util.* pkg
Collection is Interface which is having subinterfaces List, set , Queue

Q.4 what is diff betn ArrayList and LinkedList?
ArrayList is a dynamic array that can grow or shrink as needed Insertion operation slow. while LinkedList is doubly linked list that allow fast insertion and deletion of the elements, Insertion operation is fast .

Q.5 what is diff betn HashMap and TreeMap?
HashMap is hashtable that stores key-value pairs, while TreeMap is red-black tree that stores key-value pairs in sorted order.